---
title: |
  ![](img/Harikar.png){width=0.6in} \ \ \ \
  \color{harikar} \fontsize{28}{12} \selectfont Vacancy Announcement
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \usepackage{eso-pic}
  \usepackage{transparent}
  \usepackage{geometry}
  \usepackage{xcolor}
  \usepackage{sectsty}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \fancypagestyle{plain}{}
  \addtolength{\headwidth}{\linewidth}
  \fancyheadoffset{\textwidth}
  \geometry{includeheadfoot,top=0in,left=1in,right=1in,bottom=0.5in}
  \definecolor{harikar}{rgb}{0.29,0.38,0.65}
  \sectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \subsectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \fancyhf{}
  \lfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/address.png} \color{harikar} Iraq-Kurdistan – Duhok \\ \ \ \ \ Medya – Str. / Australia   }
  \cfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/unit.png} \color{harikar} HR Unit \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \includegraphics[scale=1]{img/phone.png} 0751 414 8317}
  \rfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/web.png} \color{harikar} www.harikar.org}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \renewcommand{\footrulewidth}{1pt}
  \AddToShipoutPictureBG{\AtTextLowerLeft{\put(+90,+100){\transparent{0.1}\includegraphics[width=4in]{img/Harikar.png}}}}
---

**Job Title:** Media/ Communication Organizer

**Project Name:** Enhance justice for children system and services in Duhok and Erbil governorates KR-Iraq

**Project Area:** Duhok Or Erbil

**Vacancy Ref. No:** 99

**Number of Vacancies:** 1

**Applicants Residence:** Duhok or Erbil

**Preferable Gender:** Both

**Duration of Appointment:** 6 Months

**Expected Starting Date:** 1^st^ April 2022

**Deadline:** 26^th^ Mar 2022

**Type of Contract:** Full Time

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM_3:30 PM

## Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfilment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission East,
ICSP and others.

# Terms of References

## Job Overview:

Under the direct supervision of Project Manager for Enhance justice for
children services and syetm in Duhok and Erbil KR-Iraq at Harikar NGO in
Duhok; in close coordination with UNICEF concerned staff, the Media
Officer will supervise, design, develop and manage Harikar's official
social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, etc.
for the project and also will do planning and creating communications
content to promote Harikar's services communicating with different media
channels.

The media/ communication expert will be in close coordination with media
and radio channels for designing specialized radio and TV shows focusing
on legal, mental, and social aspect of juvenile justice.

## Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

1.  Organize TV and Radio programs on the project activities in
    coordination with TV and radio channels in Dohuk and Erbil.

2.  Coordinate with TV and Radio stations for media covering of project
    activities.

3.  Develop and maintain contact information, materials and
    relationships with journalists and media outlets (print, TV, radio,
    web, photo etc.).

4.  Establish, design, supervise and develop social media units for the
    project at Harikar NGO and transfer of knowledge/technology in the
    areas of media and communications.

5.  Coordinate with stakeholders and governmental entities for media
    programme purposes.

6.  Plan and design contents for project/ Harikar official social media
    sites such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. for publication of
    the project activities.

7.  Plan and design visuals and graphics for common communications,
    advocacy and outreach initiatives, keeping abreast of competitors'
    initiatives and strategies.

8.  Generate and analyze periodic reports on webs and other social media
    channels.

9.  Prepare social media packs for flagship events and initiatives.
    Social media packs prepared for all key events, dates, launches,
    etc. and shared with stakeholders, where appropriate.

10. Arrange multi-media communications materials, including press
    releases, blog posts and social media content.

11. Ensure that all communications and uploaded materials are align with
    the existing rules and regulations of Department of Information and
    Media under the Ministry of Culture.

12. Maintain digital media archives including photos and videos and
    maintain records of media coverage and collate analytics and
    metrics.

13. Ensure or enhance the quality, consistency and appropriateness of
    communication materials, activities, processes and messages.

14. Develop and archive communication materials, including digital, such
    as publications, press releases and clippings, photographs,
    audio-visual materials, web resources, etc.

15. Undertake any other responsibilities requested by the supervisors.

### Adhere to Harikar policies and principles:

-   Ensure that project targets those beneficiaries in the targeted
    areas.

-   Promote and share ideas for improvement and necessary changes of
    activities.

### Liaise and collaborate with relevant local authorities and other key stakeholders. 

-   Build strong networks and connections with service providers of
    NNGOs, INGOs, and related governmental entities.

-   Coordinate and cooperate with other Harikars' project staff.

## Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

### Educational Qualifications:

-   A university degree in communication/journalism, public relations,
    social science or science and sociology. Individuals with
    alternative but clearly related degrees in combination with strong
    relevant work experience can be considered.

### Professional Experience:

-   Preferably a minimum of 3 years of relevant work experience in
    social media.

### Skills:

-   Demonstrated extensive social media experiences.

-   Candidate should be able to work independently with minimum
    supervision and guidance from supervisors.

-   Knowledge of English is mandatory; it is strongly recommended the
    applicant can speak and write English, Arabic and Kurdish
    languages very well.

-   Advanced computer skills, particular Microsoft Word, Excel, Power
    Point and Outlook. familiar working with database and IT issues.

-   Very good communication and interpersonal skills.

-   Candidate needs to be flexible and creative, respectful and
    diplomatic. Results-driven and highly motivated.

-   Able and or flexible in visiting refugee camps and urban settings in
    Duhok governorate.

## Reporting, Supervision and Performance Evaluation:

**Reports to:** Project Manager

**Performance Evaluation:** Project Manager.

## Expected Conduct:

-   Ensure that confidentiality is always maintained when sharing data
    and information about persons of concern;

-   Work with the Harikar team in a cooperative and collaborative
    manner;

-   Maintain cooperative relationships with partners;

-   Maintain high professional and ethical standard when both on and off
    duty, including upholding the principles and practices set out in
    the Code of Conduct and adhering to international standards;

-   Seek guidance and technical support when needed with "do no harm"
    principle being the priority at all times.

## Commitment: 

-   All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    Accountability and Quality Management.

-   All Harikar policies, guidelines and checklists are an integral part
    of this Job Description and must be implemented, e.g.:

-   Harikar Operational Guidelines and Policies.

-   Guidelines on Prevention of Corruption.

-   Guideline on PSEA.

-   Harikar Code of Conduct and

-   Checklist for procurement documents filing for supporting documents.
