---
title: |
  ![](img/Harikar.png){width=0.6in} \ \ \ \
  \color{harikar} \fontsize{28}{12} \selectfont Vacancy Announcement
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \usepackage{eso-pic}
  \usepackage{transparent}
  \usepackage{geometry}
  \usepackage{xcolor}
  \usepackage{sectsty}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \fancypagestyle{plain}{}
  \addtolength{\headwidth}{\linewidth}
  \fancyheadoffset{\textwidth}
  \geometry{includeheadfoot,top=0in,left=1in,right=1in,bottom=0.5in}
  \definecolor{harikar}{rgb}{0.29,0.38,0.65}
  \sectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \subsubsectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \fancyhf{}
  \lfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/address.png} \color{harikar} Iraq-Kurdistan – Duhok \\ \ \ \ \ Medya – Str. / Australia   }
  \cfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/unit.png} \color{harikar} HR Unit \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \includegraphics[scale=1]{img/phone.png} 0751 414 8317}
  \rfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/web.png} \color{harikar} www.harikar.org}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \renewcommand{\footrulewidth}{1pt}
  \AddToShipoutPictureBG{\AtTextLowerLeft{\put(+90,+100){\transparent{0.1}\includegraphics[width=4in]{img/Harikar.png}}}}
---

**Job Title:** Cleaner (Full time)

**Project Name:** A new chance for vulnerable Syrian children, youth,
and young mothers in Northern Iraq

**Vacancy Ref. No:** 112

**Number of Vacancies:** 1

**Applicants Residence:** Sumel

**Preferable Gender:** Female

**Duration of Appointment:** 2 Months

**Expected Starting Date:** 1^st^ Nov 2022

**Deadline:** 27^th^ Oct 2022

**Type of Contract:** Full Time

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM_3:30 PM

## Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfilment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission East,
ICSP and others.

# Terms of References

## Job Overview: 

Under the overall supervision of the Project Manager, the holder will
take responsibility for the general cleanliness and health promotion
activities at the office.

## Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

-   Clean the office and arrange the shelves.

-   Watering trees/grass.

-   Safe keeping of cleaning materials.

-   Sweep and mop floors.

-   Clean buildings by emptying trash, sweeping, and cleaning surfaces.

-   Monitor building security and safety by performing such tasks as
    locking doors after operating hours and checking electrical
    appliance use to ensure that hazards are not created.

-   Use cleaning solutions to remove stains and clean surfaces.

-   Clean windows using soapy water or other cleaners, sponges, and
    squeegees.

-   Dust furniture and scrub surfaces clean.

-   Clean and service restrooms with mops and disinfectants.

-   Move heavy equipment and furniture.

-   Identify and report possible repairs.

-   Fix minor plumbing leaks.

-   Observe the office heaters\' needs from kerosene and fill the
    heaters with fuel when needed.

-   Spray insecticides and fumigants to prevent insect and rodent
    infestation.

## Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

-   At least one year of experience as a cleaner.

-   Confidentiality and honesty.

-   Manage multiple tasks, independent, quiet, strong-structured and
    organized.

-   The ability to stand and work for long hours.

-   Adaptable and able to work well under pressure.

-   The ability to work in a team as well as independently without
    supervision.

## Performance Evaluation: 

Project Manager.

## Commitment: 

-   All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    Accountability and Quality Management.

-   All Harikar policies, guidelines and checklists are an integral part
    of this Job Description and must be implemented, e.g.:

-   Harikar Operational Guidelines and Policies.

-   Guidelines on Prevention of Corruption.

-   Guideline on PSEA.

-   Harikar Code of Conduct and

-   Checklist for procurement documents filing for supporting documents.

## Working Hours

-   Working hours are fixed from 8:00am to 3:30pm, Sunday to Wednesday,
    and 8: 00 a.m. to 3: 00 p.m. on Thursday
