---
title: |
  ![](img/Harikar.png){width=0.6in} \ \ \ \
  \color{harikar} \fontsize{28}{12} \selectfont Vacancy Announcement
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \usepackage{eso-pic}
  \usepackage{transparent}
  \usepackage{geometry}
  \usepackage{xcolor}
  \usepackage{sectsty}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \fancypagestyle{plain}{}
  \addtolength{\headwidth}{\linewidth}
  \fancyheadoffset{\textwidth}
  \geometry{includeheadfoot,top=0in,left=1in,right=1in,bottom=0.5in}
  \definecolor{harikar}{rgb}{0.29,0.38,0.65}
  \sectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \subsubsectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \fancyhf{}
  \lfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/address.png} \color{harikar} Iraq-Kurdistan – Duhok \\ \ \ \ \ Medya – Str. / Australia   }
  \cfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/unit.png} \color{harikar} HR Unit \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \includegraphics[scale=1]{img/phone.png} 0751 414 8317}
  \rfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/web.png} \color{harikar} www.harikar.org}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \renewcommand{\footrulewidth}{1pt}
  \AddToShipoutPictureBG{\AtTextLowerLeft{\put(+90,+100){\transparent{0.1}\includegraphics[width=4in]{img/Harikar.png}}}}
---

**Job Title:** IT Officer

**Project Name:** Protection and Assistant Programme for Refugees and IDPs in Duhok -- Iraq

**Project Area:** Duhok Governorate

**Vacancy Ref. No:** 108

**Number of Vacancies:** 1

**Applicants Residence:** Duhok Governorate

**Preferable Gender:** Female and Male

**Duration of Appointment:** 3 Months

**Expected Starting Date:** 16^th^ Oct 2022

**Deadline:** 5^th^ October 2022

**Type of Contract:** Employment Contract

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM_3:30PM

## Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfilment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission east,
ICSP and others.

# Terms of References

## Job Overview:

Under direct supervision of Operations Manager at Harikar NGO, IT
Officer is expected to drive the use of technology in the organization
in Duhok and Nineveh governorates, provide effective IT systems, help
develop and implement IT standards and policies, and provide technology
support and solutions to meet the needs of the organization including
Harikar functional centers in all locations. IT Officer will undertake
tasks and responsibilities as per the following classified areas;

## Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

### EQUIPMENT:

-   Configure and deploy new and refurbished workstations, laptops and
    peripheral equipment.

-   Install, troubleshoot, repair, update and maintain workstations and
    laptops.

-   Install, maintain, and troubleshoot printers/copiers as well as
    manage toner requests.

-   Setup and support audio/visual equipment for presentations and
    trainings on and off site.

-   Install and configure peripherals including scanners, external
    drives, monitors and other peripheral hardware.

-   Removal/disposal of non-functional equipment.

### SOFTWARE:

-   Provide software and system troubleshooting and support.

-   Install, maintain, troubleshoot, and update operating systems and
    user applications.

-   Proactively schedule software upgrades and patching.

-   Ensure that Harikar used software are licensed and keep record of
    licenses.

-   Track license and support contracts to include notification of
    renewal timeframe to management.

### NETWORK:

-   Network monitoring and maintenance to ensure network functionality
    and availability to all system users.

-   Install, maintain, troubleshoot, and repair cabled, wireless and
    other network infrastructure.

-   Support existing/new server/s and administer access rights for all
    users in the office.

### SECURITY:

-   Maintain local and server based anti-virus software.

-   Inform and train users and management in how to adhere to the local
    policies of IT of Harikar.

-   In case of virus infection clean out affected equipment.

-   Maintain the security of the existed networks, website, emails, etc.

### USERS:

-   Ensure computer is set up prior to new hire start date and any
    related moves.

-   Handle the relocation of computer equipment as a result of office or
    personnel changes.

-   Request and setup new user accounts and email accounts.

-   Troubleshoot, and repair user accounts and email accounts, assist in
    resetting passwords.

### PROGRAMMING:

-   Code and test programming for software and mobile apps if required.

-   Develop and deploy computer applications.

-   Execute code builds to test and production environments.

-   Fix bugs in existing code.

-   Collaborate with product, design, and marketing teams.

-   Maintain documentation according to Harikar identified standards.

-   Provide testing, maintenance, documentation, training, and support
    for third-party software products.

-   Resolve user-submitted problems and questions.

### DATABASE:

-   Show responsibility for Harikar existed functional databases.

-   Perform database administrator functions such as backups, database
    maintenance, performance tuning, user's management, etc.

-   Support in developing forms and tools for data collection and
    analysis.

-   Identify knowledge and hardware gaps in relation to all aspects of
    data management.

-   Testing of any new developed tools, features and bugs fixes.

-   Perform other database related duties as required.

### SYSTEMS PLANNING:

-   Participation in research and recommendation of improved
    infrastructure processes and technologies to include growth
    planning.

-   Provide procurement assistance including, but not limited to,
    researching solutions, engaging with potential vendors, making
    recommendations for product purchases and evaluating bids.

-   Test new equipment and applications and provide thorough feedback.

### MANAGEMENT OF VENDOR SERVICES:

-   Coordinate with vendors to schedule repairs and maintenance.

-   Request and evaluate services with vendors and service providers.

-   Work with vendors and vendor-supplied systems to track service
    requests through to completion.

-   Training: Train new and current employees on computer software and
    Harikar functional systems as required.

### ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS:

-   Create and maintain inventory, which may include hardware, software
    and various items such as laser printer cartridges and peripheral
    equipment.

-   Assist with preparation of operating budgets based on estimated and
    actual expenditures for Harikar systems and support needs.

-   Keep Harikar equipment, storage area and work area clean and
    organized.

## Additional Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Attend and participate in trainings, workshops and other capacity
    building exercises as required by the line manager;

-   Fulfil other duties as required by your line manager.

-   Able and or flexible in visiting various locations within Duhok and
    Nineveh governorates.

## Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

### Educational Qualifications:

-   Bachelor or a higher degree in related fields, preferable in
    computer science/ Information Technology-IT and or computer
    engineering.

### Professional Experience:

-   3 years relevant working experience; relevant experience within
    technical field.

-   Ability to work independently to troubleshoot, perform root cause
    analysis, identify and isolate technical issues.

-   Working in a structured manner, Service minded Behavioral
    competencies: Planning and delivering results

-   Ability to handle the work in Harikar and cooperate with the staff
    members of the organization in a required manner.

-   Excellent interpersonal skills and demonstrated ability to establish
    effective and working relations with colleagues, local partners
    and other stakeholders;

### Skills:

-   Excellent analytical and communication skills

-   Very good communication and interpersonal skills.

-   Fluent in Spoken and written English, Arabic and Kurdish

-   Have computer skills including Microsoft Office programs and other

## Reporting and Supervision 

**Reports to:** Operations Manager

**Supervises:** NA

## Expected Conduct:

-   Ensure that confidentiality is always maintained when sharing data
    and information about Harikar Staff;

-   Work with the all Harikar/units and teams in a cooperative and
    collaborative manner;

-   Maintain cooperative relationships with concerned Harikar Projects
    and partners;

-   Maintain high professional and ethical standard when both on and off
    duty, including upholding the principles and practices set out in
    the Code of Conduct and adhering to international standards;

-   Seek guidance and technical support when needed with "Do no harm"
    principle being the priority at all times.

## Commitment: 

-   All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    Accountability and Quality Management

-   All Harikar policies, guidelines and checklists are an integral part
    of this Job Description and must be implemented including, but not
    limited to;

    -   Harikar operational guidelines and Policies;

    -   Guideline prevention of corruption;

    -   Guideline on PSEA;

    -   Harikar Code of Conduct, and;

    -   Checklist for procurement documents filing for supporting
        documents.
