---
title: |
  ![](img/Harikar.png){width=0.6in} \ \ \ \
  \color{harikar} \fontsize{28}{12} \selectfont Vacancy Announcement
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \usepackage{eso-pic}
  \usepackage{transparent}
  \usepackage{geometry}
  \usepackage{xcolor}
  \usepackage{sectsty}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \fancypagestyle{plain}{}
  \addtolength{\headwidth}{\linewidth}
  \fancyheadoffset{\textwidth}
  \geometry{includeheadfoot,top=0in,left=1in,right=1in,bottom=0.5in}
  \definecolor{harikar}{rgb}{0.29,0.38,0.65}
  \sectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \subsubsectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \fancyhf{}
  \lfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/address.png} \color{harikar} Iraq-Kurdistan – Duhok \\ \ \ \ \ Medya – Str. / Australia   }
  \cfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/unit.png} \color{harikar} HR Unit \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \includegraphics[scale=1]{img/phone.png} 0751 414 8317}
  \rfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/web.png} \color{harikar} www.harikar.org}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \renewcommand{\footrulewidth}{1pt}
  \AddToShipoutPictureBG{\AtTextLowerLeft{\put(+90,+100){\transparent{0.1}\includegraphics[width=4in]{img/Harikar.png}}}}
---

**Job Title:** Community Listening Center Manager

**Project Name:** Protection and Assistant Programme for Refugees and
IDPs in Duhok -- Iraq

**Project Area:** Duhok Governorate

**Vacancy Ref. No:** 107

**Number of Vacancies:** 1

**Applicants Residence:** Bardarash and Akre Districts

**Preferable Gender:** Female

**Duration of Appointment:** 3 Months

**Expected Starting Date:** 25^th^ September, 2022

**Deadline:** 17^th^ September, 2022

**Type of Contract:** Employment Contract

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM_3:30PM

## Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfilment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission east,
ICSP and others.

# Terms of References

## Job Overview:

Under the direct supervision of Assistant Project Manager for GBV at
Harikar NGO in Duhok in close coordination with UNHCR concerned staff,
the **Community Listening Center Manager** will manage and supervise the
staff of **Community Listening Center** which responds to the GBV issues
of refugees and asylum seekers and conduct GBV prevention and response
activities for refugees residing in Gawilan camp.

## Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

-   Ensure that activities are implemented in accordance with agreed
    strategies, principles, implementation plans, and donor
    requirements.

-   Don't share any information of S/GBV survivors with other service
    providers or any other people without the permission of her
    supervisor and keep the confidentiality of the case.

-   Develop technically sound work plans consistent with program goals
    and objectives in coordination with the project staff -- Social
    Workers, Case workers and ensure timely implementation of the
    activities.

-   Monitor and evaluate staff to ensure timely and high quality
    implementation of the work plans.

-   Take lead & coordinate Protection related events including donor
    field visits and ensure proper visibility of Harikar at the camp
    level.

-   Ensure timely & quality Procurement of the center's items & services
    in liaison with supervisor and financial team.

-   Provide ongoing oversight, training, and guidance to staff to ensure
    GBV programming meets best practice standards and prioritizes the
    safety and security of beneficiaries and staff.

-   Provide ongoing technical support and mentorship for the Social
    Workers and Case workers to develop professional and technical
    competencies in GBV Protection.

-   Hold regular meetings with staff to plan and address any
    team/individual concerns and share feedback.

-   Conduct case conferences with Social Workers and Case workers to
    review case management issues and provide guidance on specific
    difficult cases when needed.

-   Coordinate with all GBV actors in Duhok and attend GBV WG as needed
    and requested by line manager.

-   Coordinate with all service providers within the camp level and out
    of camp as needed.

-   Attend training forums relevant to the position requirements.

-   Represent Harikar in the camp level meetings and events.

-   Compile all Harikar GBVIMS IR on monthly basis and as required.

-   Participate in professional development activities, as needed or
    requested.

-   Perform other duties as necessary and/or as requested.

### Reporting:

-   Report activities conducted by the Community Listening Center to
    supervisor on the agreed dates and times to supervisor.

-   Prepare/collect weekly plans, activity info figures, GBVIMS IR,
    agreed reports to local authorities, and any other input/figures
    as the need be.

-   compose proper proposals for the planned community activities,
    international events, and other events as required to supervisor.

## Additional Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Attend and participate in trainings, workshops and other capacity
    building exercises as required by the line manager;

-   CLC Manager is a member of Harikar emergency response team; responds
    to any emergency situations that might occur in KR-I border points
    with Syria and Turkey and in refugee camps.

-   Fulfil other duties as required by your line manager.

## Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

### Educational Qualifications:

-   Degree in relevant field (Psychology, Law, Community Development or
    any other Social Sciences).

### Professional Experience:

-   at least 2 years of experience working in protection particularly
    GBV, human rights, gender issues with refugees, asylum seekers,
    migrants and/or other vulnerable populations

-   Experience and willingness to work in the field

-   Aware of working in the environment of refugee camps, the procedures
    of GBV prevention and response and the interagency referral
    pathway.

-   Have cultural sensitivity and respect diversity.

-   Excellent interpersonal skills and demonstrated ability to establish
    effective and working relations with colleagues, local partners
    and other stakeholders;

### Skills:

-   Excellent analytical and communication skills

-   Very good communication and interpersonal skills. Candidate needs to
    be flexible and creative, respectful and diplomatic.
    Results-driven and highly motivated to assist the most vulnerable
    amongst refugees.

-   Fluent in Spoken and written English, Arabic and Kurdish

-   Have computer skills including Microsoft Office programs.

## Reporting and Supervision 

**Reports to:** Assistant Project Manager for GBV

**Supervises:** The staff of **Community Listening Center** including
social worker, case worker, mobilizers, cleaners and guards.

## Expected Conduct:

-   Ensure that confidentiality is always maintained when sharing data
    and information about persons of concern;

-   Work with the Harikar/UNHCR protection team in a cooperative and
    collaborative manner;

-   Maintain cooperative relationships with partners;

-   Maintain high professional and ethical standard when both on and off
    duty, including upholding the principles and practices set out in
    the Code of Conduct and adhering to international standards;

-   Seek guidance and technical support when needed with "Do no harm"
    principle being the priority at all times.

## Commitment: 

-  All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    Accountability and Quality Management

-  All Harikar policies, guidelines and checklists are an integral part
    of this Job Description and must be implemented including, but not
    limited to;

    -   Harikar operational guidelines and Policies;

    -   Guideline prevention of corruption;

    -   Guideline on PSEA;

    -   Harikar Code of Conduct, and;

    -   Checklist for procurement documents filing for supporting
        documents.
