#  VACANCY ANNOUCEMENT

**Job Title:** Information Management Officer

**Project Name:** Protection and Assistant Programme for Refugees and
IDPs in Duhok -- Iraq

**Work Duty Station:** Duhok Governorate

**Vacancy Ref. No: 101**

**Applicants Residence:** Duhok

**Preferable Gender:** Female and Male

**Duration of Appointment:** 5 months

**Expected Starting Date:** 1 August 2022

**Deadline online Submission:** 23 July 2022

**Type of Contract:** Employment Contract

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM - 3:30PM

### Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfillment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission east,
ICSP and others.

##  Terms of References 

### Job Overview: 

The IM Officer will support Harikar in Assistance Information and
Service Tracking System-ASSIST enrollment and data management area. As a
key member of the ASSIST enrollment team, IM Officer will support all
activities related to enrollment, which may also include functions
related to reception, filing and data management and production of
statistics and indicators. The incumbent will also provide counselling
to and responds to queries from POCs regarding ASSIST enrollment
procedures if required. IM Officer will liaise closely with other
protection staff and partners to ensure timely identification and
referral of persons of concern for protection follow up. The IM Officer
may assist in compiling, unifying and analyzing information related to
enrollment activities. IM Officer will also play a key role in the
implementation of the enrollment exercise and in ensuring that Harikar
meets reporting deadlines and produces quality data and analyses for
different communication and protection products

### Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

-   Ensure regular database back-ups and integrity of the databases
    > through timely data entry and verifying accuracy and relevance of
    > data on a regular basis.

-   Coordinate the data transfer of ASSIST enrollment records amongst
    > camps and non-camp areas as well.

-   Coordinate with all camp managements to ensure that ASSIST data and
    > camp data are integrated.

-   May be required to collect GIS data, update maps and undertake field
    > trips to project sites.

-   Ensure that the data which are mainly related to POCs are correctly
    > entered into the databases.

-   Develop and run the required reports from the databases including
    > ASSIST database and assist in analysis/interpretation of data as
    > required.

-   Compile data and interpret the statistics for various reports.

-   Develop forms and tools for data collection and analysis.

-   Identify knowledge and hardware gaps in relation to all aspects of
    > data management.

-   Design, develop and generate standard reports, visualizations and ad
    > hoc reports.

-   Perform database administrator functions such as backups, database
    > maintenance, performance tuning, user's management, etc.

-   IM officer to train ASSIST users on the new updates and regularly
    > hold refresher training sessions.

-   Testing of any new developed tools, features and bugs fixes.

-   IM Officer has the Authority to; (decisions made in executing
    > responsibilities and to achieve results)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Decide on data recorded in the database.

-   Decide on appropriate resolution to incidents.

-   Escalate issues to supervisor if the incident cannot be resolved
    > within area of responsibility.

-   Have access to relevant data and records.

-   Supervise data collection and data entry support staff

### Additional Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Attend and participate in trainings, workshops and other capacity
    > building exercises as required by the line manager;

-   Fulfil other duties as required by your line manager.

### Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

#### Educational Qualifications:

-   A university degree (BA or MA) in information and data management,
    > persons with alternative but clearly related degrees in
    > combination with strong relevant work experience

#### Professional Experience:

-   Able and or flexible in visiting urban areas and IDPs camps within
    > Duhok governorate.

-   Preferably a minimum of 3 years of relevant work experience in data
    > management.

-   Proven skills and experience in coordination, case mechanisms and
    > referral mechanisms

#### Skills:

-   Knowledge of English is mandatory; it is strongly recommended the
    > applicant speak and write English language very well.

-   Very good understanding "written and oral" in Arabic and Kurdish
    > language skills.

-   Advanced computer skills, particular Microsoft Word, Excel, Power
    > Point and Power BI and other relevant computer applications.
    > Familiar working with database and IT issues.

-   Very good communication and interpersonal skills. Candidate needs to
    > be flexible and creative, respectful and diplomatic.
    > Results-driven and highly motivated to assist the most vulnerable
    > amongst refugees.

### Reporting and Supervision 

**Reports to:** Assistant Project Manager for IDPs

**Supervises:** None

### Expected Conduct:

-   Ensure that confidentiality is always maintained when sharing data
    > and information about persons of concern;

-   Work with the Harikar/UNHCR protection and other teams in a
    > cooperative and collaborative manner;

-   Maintain cooperative relationships with partners;

-   Maintain high professional and ethical standard when both on and off
    > duty, including upholding the principles and practices set out in
    > the Code of Conduct and adhering to international standards;

-   Seek guidance and technical support when needed with "Do no harm"
    > principle being the priority at all times

### Commitment: 

-   All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    > Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    > Accountability and Quality Management

-   All Harikar policies and guidelines are an integral part of this Job
    > Description and must be implemented, e.g.:

    -   Harikar operational guidelines and Policies.

    -   Guideline prevention of corruption.

    -   Guideline on PSEA.

    -   Harikar Code of Conduct

    -   Child Safeguarding
