---
title: |
  ![](img/Harikar.png){width=0.6in} \ \ \ \
  \color{harikar} \fontsize{28}{12} \selectfont Vacancy Announcement
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \usepackage{eso-pic}
  \usepackage{transparent}
  \usepackage{geometry}
  \usepackage{xcolor}
  \usepackage{sectsty}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \fancypagestyle{plain}{}
  \addtolength{\headwidth}{\linewidth}
  \fancyheadoffset{\textwidth}
  \geometry{includeheadfoot,top=0in,left=1in,right=1in,bottom=0.5in}
  \definecolor{harikar}{rgb}{0.29,0.38,0.65}
  \sectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \subsubsectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \fancyhf{}
  \lfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/address.png} \color{harikar} Iraq-Kurdistan – Duhok \\ \ \ \ \ Medya – Str. / Australia   }
  \cfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/unit.png} \color{harikar} HR Unit \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \includegraphics[scale=1]{img/phone.png} 0751 414 8317}
  \rfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/web.png} \color{harikar} www.harikar.org}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \renewcommand{\footrulewidth}{1pt}
  \AddToShipoutPictureBG{\AtTextLowerLeft{\put(+90,+100){\transparent{0.1}\includegraphics[width=4in]{img/Harikar.png}}}}
---

**Job Title:** Case Manager (Full time) (Re-advertised)

**Project Name:** Providing specialized protection services to
vulnerable returnees and IDPs in Duhok and Ninawa governorates, Iraq

**Project Area:** Duhok, Ninawa Governorates (Qahtanya , Hatara)

**Vacancy Ref. No:** 103

**Number of Vacancies:** 1

**Applicants Residence:** Summel Protection community center, with
traveling to relevant centers in Ninawa Governate.

**Preferable Gender:** Female and Male

**Duration of Appointment:** 7 Months

**Expected Starting Date:** 1 September 2022

**Deadline:** August 22^th^, 2022

**Type of Contract:** Employment Contract

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM_3:30PM

## Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfilment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission east,
ICSP and others.

# Term of References

## Job Overview:

Under the direct supervision of Project Assistant, the Case Manager is
in charge of supervision and monitoring case workers, providing case
management, psychosocial support upon sever cases, referrals to the
identified cases of rights-violation to help them recover from the
experienced abuse. Also, encourage clients to discuss emotions and
experiences. Examine issues including substance abuse, aging, bullying,
anger management, careers, depression, relationships, help cases define
goals, plan action and gain insight, develop therapeutic processes, and
take a holistic (mind and body) approach to mental health care.

## Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

-   Actively identify protection concerns of the persons of concern and
    respond to them in an effective and timely manner.

-   Provide protection and specialized services to the identified cases
    including case management and PSS (in person and remotely).

-   Ensure confidentiality is maintained at all phases of client
    management and documentation.

-   Use appropriate formats for documenting and referring protection
    interventions, including PAs (Protection Assessments).

-   Maintain in-depth knowledge of referral pathways and eligibility
    criteria to services related to legal protection issues such as
    registration, documentation, civil status, detentions, SGBV and
    Child Protection and any other basic and most common protection
    concerns.

-   Track & Maintain records of client referrals

-   Follow up on all referred clients to ensure they are provided with
    the assistance needed.

-   Ensure Humanitarian Accountability Principles are mainstreamed in
    the day-to-day project implementation

-   Collecting data;s from Case workers by weekly and preparing tracking
    records of PSS, CM

-   Assist in preparing daily, monthly, quarterly, and annual reports,
    progress notes, and treatment plans on time.

### Summary:

-   Work towards the achievement of overall goals through effective
    implementation, and coordination with other service providers.

-   Ensure appropriate community involvement in design and delivery of
    services.

-   Development and carry out need assessment, FGDs, interviews to
    improve the project.

## Additional Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Organizes and accurately completes multiple tasks by establishing
    priorities while taking into consideration special assignments,
    frequent interruptions, deadlines, available resources and
    multiple reporting relationships

-   Plan, coordinate and organize workload while remaining aware of
    changing Priorities and competing deadlines.

-   Team management abilities, decision making, and cultural awareness.

-   Strong initiative to new ideas, flexibility in adapting to changes,
    and creativity in responding to challenges.

-   Excellent communication skills (written and oral): Sensitivity to
    and responsiveness to project staff, local authorities, and the
    community.

-   Commitment to the job and the organization.

-   Responds positively to critical feedback and differing points of
    view.

-   Solicits feedback from staff about the impact of his/her own
    behavior.

## Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

### Educational Qualifications:

-   Bachelor's degree or higher in psychology, sociology, human
    sciences.

### Professional Experience:

-   Knowledge on Development, humanitarian field, and design of
    protection interventions.

-   Having at least two years of experience working with an NGO in
    similar positions.

-   Having at least two years of experience in the relevant fields.

-   Good language skills (writing & speaking) Kurdish and Arabic and
    English.

-   Excellent communication and reporting skills.

### Skills:

-   Fluency in written and spoken in Arabic, Kurdish and English.

## Reporting and Supervision 

**Reports to:** Project Assistant

## Expected Conduct:

-   Ensure that confidentiality is always maintained when sharing data
    and information about persons of concern;

-   Maintain cooperative relationships with partners;

-   Maintain high professional and ethical standard when both on and off
    duty, including upholding the principles and practices set out in
    the Code of Conduct and adhering to international standards;

-   Seek guidance and technical support when needed with "Do no harm"
    principle being the priority at all times.

## Commitment: 

-   All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    Accountability and Quality Management

-   All Harikar policies and guidelines are an integral part of this Job
    Description and must be implemented, e.g.:

    -   Harikar operational guidelines and Policies.

    -   Guideline prevention of corruption.

    -   Guideline on PSEA.

    -   Harikar Code of Conduct

    -   Child Safeguarding

    -   Time keeping policy
