#  VACANCY ANNOUCEMENT

**Job Title:** Direct interpreter

**Project Name:** Enhance Justice for Children Services and System in
Duhok and Erbil

governorates, KR-Iraq

**Job Area:** Duhok- Erbil Governorate

**Vacancy Ref. No:** 102

**Number Of Vacancies:** 1

**Preferable Gender:** Female and Male

**Duration of Appointment:** 2 months

**Expected Starting Date:** 15 August 2022

**Deadline online Submission:** 7 August 2022

**Type of Contract:** Service contract

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM - 3:30PM

### Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfillment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission east,
ICSP and others.

##  Terms of References 

### Job Overview: 

Harikar aims to provide support to children and youth in KR-I detention
and reformatory facilities through an innovative project combining
specialized JJ and MHPSS services with a supported curriculum, in a
partnership with UNICEF Iraq, other related ministries in KR-I and
others; to enable them to move forward with their lives as peaceful and
productive members of society. Additionally, awareness work with the
communities on social cohesion will help the children and youth
reintegrate into the society. Child Protection committee is strongly
based on child protection system strengthening, community empowerment
objectives, fostered resilience of children and youth with a
tailored-made reintegration intervention which includes a specialized
justice approach. Therefore, civil society and government social workers
will be trained on effective mental health and justices approaches.

The interpreter position is designed to assist international consultant
in direct interpretation from Kurdish-Arabic- English during workshops
and formal meetings with stakeholders.

The interpreter will be also responsible for translating reports from
Arabic to Kurdish and English.

### Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

-   Direct interpretation from Arabic-Kurdish during 6-12 days'
    workshop.

-   Direct interpretation during field visits and meetings with local
    authorities.

-   Translating reports and documents as needed.

-   Translation of IEC materials as needed.

### Additional Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Fulfil other duties as required by your line manager.

### Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

#### Educational Qualifications:

-   A University degree from language department or practical experience
    in interpretation.

#### Professional Experience:

-   Minimum experience of 3 years in direct interpretation.

-   Fluent in Arabic, Kurdish (Bahdini --Sorani), and English is a plus

-   Excellent knowledge about legal terminologies in Arabic and Kurdish.

#### Skills:

-   Advanced computer skills, particular Microsoft Word, Excel, Power
    > Point and Power BI and other relevant computer applications.
    > Familiar working with database and IT issues.

-   Very good communication and interpersonal skills. Candidate needs to
    > be flexible and creative, respectful and diplomatic.
    > Results-driven and highly motivated to assist the most vulnerable
    > amongst refugees.

### Reporting and Supervision 

**Reports to:** Project manager

**Supervises:** None

### Expected Conduct:

-   Ensure that confidentiality is always maintained when sharing data
    > and information about persons of concern;

-   Work with the Harikar/UNICEF and other teams in a cooperative and
    > collaborative manner;

-   Maintain cooperative relationships with partners;

-   Maintain high professional and ethical standard when both on and off
    > duty, including upholding the principles and practices set out in
    > the Code of Conduct and adhering to international standards;

-   Seek guidance and technical support when needed with "Do no harm"
    > principle being the priority at all times

### Commitment: 

-   All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    > Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    > Accountability and Quality Management

-   All Harikar policies and guidelines are an integral part of this Job
    > Description and must be implemented, e.g.:

    i.  Harikar operational guidelines and Policies.

    ii. Guideline prevention of corruption.

    iii. Guideline on PSEA.

    iv. Harikar Code of Conduct

    v.  Child Safeguarding

###  To apply click the below link:

[**Click
here**](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdQd4J0E4xmpApMedyIDPuImPSCCALiI4RG7UYGACf8iMhC6w/viewform)
