---
title: |
  ![](img/Harikar.png){width=0.6in} \ \ \ \
  \color{harikar} \fontsize{28}{12} \selectfont Vacancy Announcement
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \usepackage{eso-pic}
  \usepackage{transparent}
  \usepackage{geometry}
  \usepackage{xcolor}
  \usepackage{sectsty}
  \pagestyle{fancy}
  \fancypagestyle{plain}{}
  \addtolength{\headwidth}{\linewidth}
  \fancyheadoffset{\textwidth}
  \geometry{includeheadfoot,top=0in,left=1in,right=1in,bottom=0.5in}
  \definecolor{harikar}{rgb}{0.29,0.38,0.65}
  \sectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \subsubsectionfont{\color{harikar}}
  \fancyhf{}
  \lfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/address.png} \color{harikar} Iraq-Kurdistan – Duhok \\ \ \ \ \ Medya – Str. / Australia   }
  \cfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/unit.png} \color{harikar} HR Unit \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \includegraphics[scale=1]{img/phone.png} 0751 414 8317}
  \rfoot{\includegraphics[scale=1]{img/web.png} \color{harikar} www.harikar.org}
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
  \renewcommand{\footrulewidth}{1pt}
  \AddToShipoutPictureBG{\AtTextLowerLeft{\put(+90,+100){\transparent{0.1}\includegraphics[width=4in]{img/Harikar.png}}}}
---

**Job Title:** Legal Assistant

**Project Name:** Protection and Assistant Programme for Refugees and IDPs in Duhok -- Iraq

**Project Area:** Duhok Governorate

**Vacancy Ref. No:** 111

**Number of Vacancies:** 1 

**Applicants Residence:** Duhok Governorate

**Preferable Gender:** Female and Male

**Duration of Appointment:** 2 months

**Expected Starting Date:** 1^st^ Nov 2022

**Deadline:** 22^nd^ Oct 2022

**Type of Contract:** Employment Contract

**Working Hours:** 8:00AM - 3:30PM

## Background:

Harikar NGO is a neutral, non-governmental, non-profit humanitarian
organization established on 30th May 2004 by a group of social
activists. Harikar NGO as stated in its mission statement strives toward
the fulfillment of human and women rights in Dohuk Governorate as
stipulated in the new Iraqi constitution of 15th October 2005. Harikar
is committed to- within its resources- contribute towards the
achievement of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals.
Harikar believes in human rights, the right of every person to reach
his/her potential without discrimination on the basis of race, gender,
religion, social segment and ethnicity. Harikar strives to achieve
social justice especially among the marginalized vulnerable groups and
works towards eliminating all forms of discrimination against women by
promoting their capacity to fully participate in community development.
Harikar has been able to successfully carry out more than 80 projects,
through funding from various partners including UNFPA, RRT/PRT, UNHCR,
UNESCO, UNICEF, UNOCHA, Diakonia, UNDP, UNOPS, IRD, Mercy Corps, CARE
International, ASB, GIZ, Acted, IRC, IRI, NDI, SCF-UK, Mission east,
ICSP and others.

#  Terms of References

## Job Overview:

Under the direct supervision of the Legal Coordinator at Harikar NGO,
the Legal Assistant will support the legal aid program needs within
refugee response in Duhok governorate doing proper documentation of
legal cases and archiving them as appropriate and supporting the
preparation of data collected by lawyers for any request for
information. The legal aid program helps refugees have access to legal
assistance and remedies including the issuance of necessary documents in
KR-I. The required duties and responsibilities of a **Legal Assistant**
are as following:

## Scope of Work (Duties and Responsibilities):

-   Do proper documentation for the received refugees' legal cases in
    coordination with lawyers.

-   Do archiving for the legal cases keeping accurate paper records on
    each beneficiary which will be saved inside a file and accordingly
    stored in a file cabinet.

-   Organize, catalogue and maintain file cabinets and their contents.

-   Ensure that the legal data are safe and locked with a password in
    the work laptop as s/he is responsible for all legal data.

-   Receive data from lawyers and support them in terms of preparing
    data for any request for information, review and organize the
    already set tables, charts, database, and other legal aid unit
    tools, and at the same time check/control the quality of entered
    data.

-   In charge of the Harikar legal unit helpline through which he/she
    responds and provides information, guidance and orientation, about
    the Harikar legal aid program.

-   Perform duties according to the Harikar/UNHCR legal aid program SOPs
    and guidelines.

## Additional Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Scanning and saving documents of the beneficiary.

-   Organize and catalogue documents appropriately.

-   Coordinate with lawyers to keep records of their cases.

-   Follow up with lawyers in order to gain the proper documents of the
    beneficiary for the archive.

-   Flexible in the movement to visit lawyers in camps/helpdesks for
    data quality checking and training on data entry.

-   Coordinate with line manager as per required.

-   Prepare data for reports as per set and agreed between Harikar and
    UNHCR.

-   Attend and participate in trainings, workshops and other
    capacity-building exercises as required by the line manager;

-   Fulfil other duties as required by the line manager.

-   Ensure that the lawyers receive the required needs such as
    stationery, office supplies, refreshment and other requirements.

## Experience, Qualifications and Skills:

### Educational Qualifications:

-   A university degree in law is essential, persons with alternative
    but clearly related degrees in combination with strong relevant
    work experience can be considered.

### Professional Experience:

-   Preferably a minimum of 3 years of relevant work experience
    preferably with legal background.

### Skills:

-   Excellent "written and oral" in English and Kurdish language skills.
    Good knowledge of Arabic is an added value.

-   Advanced computer skills, particularly Microsoft Word, Excel,
    PowerPoint and Outlook.

-   Very good communication and interpersonal skills. Candidate needs to
    be flexible and creative, respectful and diplomatic.
    Results-driven and highly motivated to support the implementation
    of project activities.

## Reporting and Supervision 

**Reports to:** Legal Coordinator

**Supervises:** None

## Expected Conduct:

-   Ensure that confidentiality is always maintained when sharing data
    and information about persons of concern;

-   Work with other Harikar teams/units in a cooperative and
    collaborative manner;

-   Maintain cooperative relationships with partners;

-   Maintain high professional and ethical standards when both on and
    off duty, including upholding the principles and practices set out
    in the Code of Conduct and adhering to international standards;

-   Seek guidance and technical support when needed with "Do no harm"
    principle being the priority at all times.

## Commitment: 

-   All Harikar staff must be committed to the Core Humanitarian
    Principles as well as the Core Humanitarian Standards in
    Accountability and Quality Management

-   All Harikar policies and guidelines are an integral part of this Job
    Description and must be implemented, e.g.:

    -   Harikar operational guidelines and Policies.
    -   Guideline prevention of corruption.
    -   Guideline on PSEA.
    -   Harikar Code of 
    -   Child Safeguarding
